Methodology - Initial PLS1-SM, Full ICA + MOC (#32)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_pre_thesis/src/sections/methodology.tex

> \section{Methodology}\label{sec:methodology}

Author: Added introduction.

Furthermore, we delve into the experiments we have conducted to evaluate the performance of our pipeline such that we can identify the components that contribute the most to the overall error.

\subsection{PLS1-SM}
This section describes the PLS1-SM aspect of the pipeline.

\subsubsection{Outlier Removal with Mahalanobis Distance and Chi-Squared Test}
% General programming language differences and implementation details
% Differences in outlier detection (automatic/quantitative vs manual/qualitative)
% Missing information about how three of the oxides are weighted in MOC result
% No manual cross validation in PLS
% Holdout split 80/20
% No inverse IRF weighing weighting in ICA
% Missing information about outlier removal in ICA - therefore we decided to not do it
% Missing information about how ICA uses each of the five datasets for each target
% How we do regression in ICA (since there are not enough details about it in the papers)

As mentioned in section \ref{sec:background}, if the Mahalanobis distances can be shown to follow a chi-squared distribution, then the chi-squared test can be used to determine whether a sample is an outlier.

> Since we do not have the expertize to make a qualitative assessment of the outliers, we have instead decided to use this property of the Mahalanobis distances to automatically detect outliers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we do not have the expertise to make a qualitative assessment of the outliers, we have instead decided to use this property of the Mahalanobis distances to automatically detect outliers.
```

> This works by computing the Mahalanobis distances for each sample in the training set, and then computing the chi-squared statistic for the Mahalanobis distances.

Author: @Ivikhostrup pls fix

> This works by computing the Mahalanobis distances for each sample in the training set, and then computing the chi-squared statistic for the Mahalanobis distances.

Reviewer 2: can you elaborate on the issue with the text? I am not entirely sure how what you wrote is different from what was written.

Since we have leverage and residuals as our two dimensions, we have $df = 2$, because the number of dimensions is equal to the number of degrees of freedom\cite{aggarwal_outlier_2017}.
% TODO: Describe why we chose the degrees of freedom we did, and how we used this chi-squared test to determine outliers.

The outlier removal process is done iteratively because of the phenomenon described in \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} where removing outliers can cause new outliers to appear.
The process is as follows:
\begin{enumerate}
	\item Compute the Mahalanobis distances for each sample in the training set.
	\item Compute the chi-squared statistic for the Mahalanobis distances.
	\item Remove the samples that are outliers.
	\item Train a new model on the remaining samples.
	\item Repeat from step 1 until the chi-squared statistic is less than the critical value.
\end{enumerate}

It should be noted that our outlier removal process is conservative to avoid removing too many samples and as such, we have set our significance level $\alpha$ to 0.975.
This means that we are willing to accept a 2.5\% chance of falsely removing a sample that is not an outlier.

\subsection{ICA}

> The ICA phase in our pipeline, which can be seen in figure \ref{fig:ica_data}, represents a largely authentic replication of the original, with a few considered adjustments and exclusions due to incomplete details about the original implementation.

Author: ```suggestion
The ICA phase in our pipeline, which can be seen in figure \ref{fig:ica_data}, represents a mostly faithful replication of the original, with a few considered adjustments and exclusions due to incomplete details about the original implementation.
```

In this section, we delve into these differences and the rationale behind our choices, maintaining a strong alignment with the overall methodology of the original pipeline.

\subsubsection{Data Preprocessing}

> Similar to the original pipeline, we have used the 408 samples from the ChemCam calibration dataset.

Author: ```suggestion
Similar to the original pipeline, we have used the samples from the ChemCam calibration dataset.
```

Before performing ICA, we have to preprocess this data, which is illustrated in figure \ref{fig:ica_data}.

> As in section \ref{sec:...}, we start by masking the data such that the spectral-range edges are removed. %TODO: update reference when PLS section is done

Author: ```suggestion
As in section \ref{sec:...}, we start by masking the data such that the emission lines in the spectral-range edges are removed. %TODO: update reference when PLS section is done
```

The independent components from each of these two datasets are saved to a file and used for regression later.
These steps are identical to the original pipeline described by \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.2675\textwidth]{images/ica_data.png}
	\caption{The ICA phase in our recreation of the pipeline.}
	\label{fig:ica_data}
\end{figure}

However, we do not weigh by the inverse of the instrument response function (IRF) as mentioned in \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} before normalizing.
The reason for this is that the practical implications of weighing by the inverse of the IRF has been subject to criticism by some of the original authors since it effectively reintroduces the noise that was removed by applying the IRF in the first place.
As previously mentioned, the IRF is applied specifically to remove noise from the data during the processing of the EDR to CCS data.

> Therefore, weighing by the inverse of the IRF seems counterproductive based on this information.

Author: I have asked them - waiting for a reply...

In addition, because \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not mention how each of the five datasets are used for each target, we have decided to only use the first dataset for each target.
This likely does not produce as accurate results as using all five datasets would, since we do not get a full representation of the sample that was shot at by the laser, instead only getting a partial representation from a single location.
Nevertheless, to avoid deviating significantly from \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}'s methodology or making unfounded assumptions about their data processing, we have opted for this more conservative approach.
Our goal is to test each of the components of the pipeline individually rather than trying to reproduce the results to absolute perfection.

> Similarly, in our recreation of the pipeline, we have not incorporated outlier detection in the ICA part of the pipeline primarily because \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not describe their implementation sufficiently enough for precise replication.

Reviewer: Better?
```suggestion
Similarly, in our recreation of the pipeline, we have not incorporated outlier detection in the ICA part of the pipeline primarily because \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not describe their implementation sufficiently enough for replication without unsubstantiated assumptions.
```

They mention the use of Median Absolute Deviation for this purpose, but the specifics of their approach remain unclear.

> Our decision to omit outlier detection in the ICA phase of our pipeline is also influenced by a preference for retaining a more comprehensive dataset, despite the potential inclusion of outliers.

Reviewer: If done correctly, outlier removal is a benefit. Do we have any evidence to back up that a 'comprehensive' dataset > a dataset with (few/no) outliers?

Author: Updated the argument phrasing.

> Further supporting this decision is input from one of the original authors involved in the PLS1-SM aspect of the project.

Reviewer: 1. Not just part of PLS1-SM
2. This can read like it validates the claim above. I don't recall that being a point of discussion? So this wouldn't be true?

Author: ```suggestion
Further supporting this decision is input from one of the original authors involved in the project.
```

This author highlighted the extensive efforts invested in developing the ChemCam calibration dataset, suggesting a low probability of significant outlier presence.
Given this context, introducing outlier detection for the ICA phase based on mere assumptions would be counterproductive, potentially compromising the integrity of our analysis.

After examining the results in section \ref{sec:results}, we will discuss the implications of these design choices in section \ref{sec:discussion}.

\subsection{Joint Approximate Diagonalization of Eigenmatrices (JADE) and Regression}
After preprocessing the data, we are ready to perform ICA.

> This is done using the JADE algorithm, which is the same algorithm used by \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.

Reviewer: We could merge the first and second paragraphs here to basically say that we use the same algorithm and hyperparameters

This gives us eight independent components --- same as in the original pipeline.
After performing ICA, we post-process by computing the correlation between the independent components and the wavelengths.
Using this, we can identify which wavelengths are associated with which independent components by computing the maximum correlation for each wavelength.
This gives us a matrix of ICA scores that we then use for regression.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{images/ica_regression.png}
	\caption{Regression in the ICA phase of our recreation of the pipeline.}
	\label{fig:ica_regression}
\end{figure}

The regression process is illustrated in figure \ref{fig:ica_regression}.
Since we are implementing this recreation in Python, a different programming language than the original pipeline, we cannot use the same libraries for regression.
We use the \texttt{LinearRegression} class from the \texttt{scikit-learn} library\cite{scikit-learn}.
However, \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} mentions performing four more types of regression in addition to linear regression, namely parabolic, exponential, geometric and logsquare.

> For each oxide, they used the type of regression and normalization that produced the lowest root mean square (RMS) error.

Reviewer: Without the text I've marked with 'TODO' later, this feels like a cliffhanger

This can be seen in table \ref{tab:regression_types}, which is taken from \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.

\begin{table}[h]

> \centering

Reviewer: IMO don't duplicate their table. We could do it but only to also embed our own results, to showcase our baseline.

\begin{tabular*}{\columnwidth}{@{\extracolsep{\fill}}lccc}
\toprule
Element & Norm & Law type    & RMS \\ \midrule
Si      & 1    & Logsqaure   & 6.7 \\
Ti      & 3    & Geometric   & 0.6 \\
Al      & 3    & Geometric   & 4.4 \\
Fe      & 1    & Geometric   & 2.2 \\
Mg      & 1    & Exponential & 3.0 \\
Ca      & 1    & Parabolic   & 1.0 \\
Na      & 3    & Parabolic   & 0.6 \\
K       & 3    & Geometric   & 0.4 \\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular*}
\caption{The summary of each ICA model characteristics from \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.}
\label{tab:regression_types}
\end{table}

> % Because \texttt{scikit-learn} does not support these types of regression, we instead opted to transform the data to fit the linear regression model.

Reviewer: TODO?

Author: ```suggestion
% TODO: Update/rewrite this to reflect the new curve-fit implementation.
% Because \texttt{scikit-learn} does not support these types of regression, we instead opted to transform the data to fit the linear regression model.
```

\subsection{MOC}
As mentioned in section \ref{sec:moc}, the result of the PLS1-SM and ICA are combined to produce the final MOC model.
This is done by taking a weighted average of the two models, where the weights are determined based on the fact that one technique is be better suited for certain elements than the other.
These weights can be seen in table \ref{tab:weighted_sum_oxide}.
Note that the weights for Ti, Mg and Ca have been set to 50/50 since \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not mention the weights they used for these elements.

\begin{table}[h]
\centering
\begin{tabular*}{\columnwidth}{@{\extracolsep{\fill}}lcc}
\toprule
Element  & PLS1-SM (\%) & ICA (\%) \\ \midrule
Al       & 75           & 25      \\
Fe       & 75           & 25      \\
Si       & 50           & 50      \\
Na       & 40           & 60      \\
K2       & 25           & 75      \\
Ti*      & 50           & 50      \\
Mg*      & 50           & 50      \\
Ca*      & 50           & 50      \\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular*}

> \caption{Weighted Sum of Oxide Percentages. Elements marked with an asterisk (*) have been set to 50/50 as they are unspecified.}

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
\caption{Weighted Sum of Oxide Percentages. Elements marked with an asterisk (*) have been set to 50/50 as they are unspecified in \citeauthor{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.}
```

In addition, some aspects of the pipeline rely on qualitative assessments made by the original authors --- something we cannot do because we are not domain experts.
Consequently, our pipeline is not identical to the original, but we have strived to make it as close as possible.

This section is dedicated to describing the methodology of our pipeline, how it differs from the original, and which design choices we have made and why.
Furthermore, we delve into the experiments we have conducted to evaluate the performance of our pipeline such that we can identify the components that contribute the most to the overall error.

Section \ref{sec:shared_preprocessing} outlines the preprocessing steps common to both the PLS1-SM and ICA phases of the pipeline.
In Section \ref{sec:methodology_pls1}, we focus on the specifics of the PLS1-SM phase, detailing its associated data preprocessing procedures.
Section \ref{sec:methodology_ica} then details the ICA phase, including its unique data preprocessing steps.
Lastly, Section \ref{sec:methodology_moc} presents a description of the MOC phase of the pipeline.

> \subsection{Shared Preprocessing}\label{sec:shared_preprocessing}

Author: We think it's more explicit to call it shared. This way, there is no room for confusion or misunderstandings. So we would argue to keep it.

> Similar to the original pipeline, we have used the samples from the ChemCam calibration dataset.

Author: The suggestion is fine but we usually use \citet instead of \citeauthor so we get both the author name and citation in this section.

The reason we describe the data at this point is that our supervisors asked us to explicitly describe the data format at each stage, including pre-processing. Describing the entire pre-processing in detail was done to adhere to this request from them.

Part of the data preprocessing is shared between the PLS1-SM and ICA phases of the pipeline.
However, each phase also has its own preprocessing steps, which are described in sections \ref{sec:pls1_data_preprocessing} and \ref{sec:ica_data_preprocessing} respectively.

For each target, the data is split into five datasets, one for each location on the sample that was shot at by the laser.
Each dataset contains CCS data stored in a \texttt{.csv} file, which is read into a Pandas dataframe\cite{pandas} using the \texttt{read\_csv} function.

> Because the CCS data includes several lines of header information, we skip these lines using the \texttt{skiprows} parameter.

Author: Again - supervisors wanted us to describe the data format. I can see why we could remove the Pandas part, but I don't think we should remove the description about the CCS header information, since that's part of the data format description the supervisors wanted.

We then remove the first five shots from the data similarly to \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}.
These first five shots are typically contaminated by dust that covers the target before being removed by the laser-produced shock waves.

> Finally, we mask the edges of the spectral regions of the data to eliminate increased noise, especially in areas where small intensity changes lead to large variations in the calibrated signal.

Author: 👍

> The masked regions, which do not contain unique major element diagnostic peaks, are excluded to enhance the accuracy and reliability of the quantitative analysis.

Author: I added a cite to the final of these three claims (Clegg et. all).
Unsure whether this is what you meant, but this all of the following is based on that paper:

> These first five shots are typically contaminated by dust that covers the target before being removed by the laser-produced shock waves.
> Finally, we mask the edges of the spectral regions of the data to eliminate increased noise, especially in areas where small intensity changes lead to large variations in the calibrated signal.
> The masked regions, which do not contain unique major element diagnostic peaks, are excluded to enhance the accuracy and reliability of the quantitative analysis.

These regions are defined in \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} as 240.811 --- 246.635, 338.457 --- 340.797, 382.138 --- 387.859, 473.184 --- 492.427, and 849 --- 905.574 nm.
% An illustration of these masked regions can be seen in figure \ref{fig:masked_regions}.

> An example of these masked regions for the \texttt{cadillac} target can be seen in figure \ref{fig:masked_regions}.

Author: Probably sample. That's what they usually call it. Should be fixed now. I also corrected it in this sentence in the ICA subsection, which now says sample instead of target:

```
In addition, because \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not mention how each of the five location datasets are used for each sample, we have decided to only use one for each sample.
This likely does not produce as accurate results as using all five location datasets would, since we do not get a full representation of the sample that was shot at by the laser, instead only getting a partial representation from a single location.
```

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{images/masked_regions.png}
	\caption{The masked regions of the spectral data for the \texttt{cadillac} target.}
	\label{fig:masked_regions}
\end{figure}

> Finally, we apply two different normalization techniques, Norm1 and Norm3, to the data.

Author: Should now be fixed.

This results in two separate datasets, each normalized in a distinct manner but derived from the same original dataset.
ICA and PLS-SM are then performed on each of these datasets separately.
The reason for this is that, as \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} found, some of the oxides are better modeled with data normalized using Norm1, while others are better modeled with data normalized using Norm3.

The pipeline for the shared preprocessing steps can be seen in figure \ref{fig:shared_preprocessing}.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.2675\textwidth]{images/shared_preprocessing.png}
	\caption{The preprocessing steps shared by both the PLS1-SM and ICA phases of the pipeline.}
	\label{fig:shared_preprocessing}
\end{figure}

\subsection{PLS1-SM}\label{sec:methodology_pls1}
This section describes the PLS1-SM aspect of the pipeline.

\subsubsection{Data Preprocessing}\label{sec:pls1_data_preprocessing}

> After the shared preprocessing steps described in section \ref{sec:shared_preprocessing}, the data undergoes a further step of averaging.

Author: Should be fixed now.

> Recall that each target is shot at five different locations, and each location is shot at 50 times.

Author: Will move to data overview section. Removed from methodology.

% General programming language differences and implementation details
% Differences in outlier detection (automatic/quantitative vs manual/qualitative)
% Missing information about how three of the oxides are weighted in MOC result
% No manual cross validation in PLS
% Holdout split 80/20
% No inverse IRF weighing weighting in ICA
% Missing information about outlier removal in ICA - therefore we decided to not do it
% Missing information about how ICA uses each of the five datasets for each target
% How we do regression in ICA (since there are not enough details about it in the papers)

As mentioned in section \ref{sec:outlier_removal}, if the Mahalanobis distances can be shown to follow a chi-squared distribution, then the chi-squared test can be used to determine whether a sample is an outlier.
Since we do not have the expertise to make a qualitative assessment of the outliers, we have instead decided to use this property of the Mahalanobis distances to automatically detect outliers.
This works by computing the Mahalanobis distance for each data point in the training set, followed by a comparison of these distances against a chi-squared distribution.

> A data point is classified as an outlier if its Mahalanobis distance corresponds to a chi-squared statistic that exceeds the critical value of the chi-squared distribution, which is determined by the specified degrees of freedom $df$.

Author: Changed it to Nu based on the following:

> In equations, the typical symbol for degrees of freedom is ν (lowercase [Greek letter nu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nu_(letter))). In text and tables, the abbreviation "d.f." is commonly used. [R. A. Fisher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronald_A._Fisher) used n to symbolize degrees of freedom but modern usage typically reserves n for sample size.

I don't think we should remove it since we do use it. And we might end up mentioning it later too (for example in experiments). Also I think this line would end up phrased weirdly if we removed it:

> Since we have leverage and spectral residuals as our two dimensions, we have $\nu = 2$, because the number of dimensions is equal to the number of degrees of freedom\cite{aggarwal_outlier_2017}.

% TODO: Describe why we chose the degrees of freedom we did, and how we used this chi-squared test to determine outliers.

The outlier removal process is done iteratively because of the phenomenon described in \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} where removing outliers can cause new outliers to appear.
The process is as follows:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Compute the Mahalanobis distances for each sample in the training set.
    \item Determine chi-squared statistics for these distances.
    \item Eliminate outliers exceeding the chi-squared critical value.
    \item Train a new model on the remaining samples.
    \item Repeat until model no longer improves as measured by the RMSE.
\end{enumerate}

It should be noted that our outlier removal process is conservative to avoid removing too many samples and as such, we have set our significance level $\alpha$ to 0.975.
This means that we are willing to accept a 2.5\% chance of falsely removing a sample that is not an outlier.

\subsection{ICA}\label{sec:methodology_ica}

> The ICA phase in our pipeline, which can be seen in figure \ref{fig:ica_data}, represents a mostly faithful replication of the original, with a few considered adjustments and exclusions due to incomplete details about the original implementation.

Reviewer: And I especially dislike stating this when we're missing two large parts of the ICA phase lol

> In this section, we delve into these differences and the rationale behind our choices, maintaining a strong alignment with the overall methodology of the original pipeline.

Author: Agreed and should also be addressed now.

The purpose of the IRF is to calibrate the measured signal to physical units since different pixels have different sensitivities\cite{chemcam_instrument_suite}.
For example, pixels located at the edge of a CCS usually exhibit lower sensitivity compared to those at the center, and the optics vary in their reflective and absorptive properties at different wavelengths.
One argument for inverting the IRF is that it introduces more noise in areas of interest on the spectrum by multiplying with a high value as part of the conversion to physical units.
However, during a conversation with one of the original authors of \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}, criticism was raised against this.
Specifically, the author pointed out that weighing by the inverse of the discards the alignment between the spectral data collected by the instrument in Los Alamos and the spectral data collected by the instrument on Mars.
If the same instrument were used for all analyses, one could argue that the IRF (apart from the inverse square law correction) part is irrelevant, but that is not the case here; there are two different instruments --- one in Los Alamos and one on Mars.

> Based on these considerations, we have decided to not weigh by the inverse of the IRF.

Reviewer: Need to remember to update this

Author: We just did now. Please read the new stuff.

Nevertheless, to avoid deviating significantly from \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}'s methodology or making unfounded assumptions about their data processing, we have opted for this more conservative approach.
Our goal is to test each of the components of the pipeline individually rather than trying to reproduce the results to absolute perfection.

Similarly, in our replica of the pipeline, we have not incorporated outlier detection in the ICA part of the pipeline primarily because \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not describe their implementation sufficiently enough for replication without unsubstantiated assumptions.
They mention the use of Median Absolute Deviation for this purpose, but the specifics of their approach remain unclear.
Our decision to omit outlier detection in the ICA phase of our pipeline is also influenced by a preference for retaining a more comprehensive dataset, despite the potential inclusion of outliers.
Further supporting this decision is input from one of the original authors involved in the ChemCam project.

> This author highlighted the extensive efforts invested in developing the ChemCam calibration dataset, suggesting a low presence of significant outliers.

Reviewer: This also kind of weakens the PLS-SM outlier removal argument. Perhaps this justifies our idea for removing PLS-SM outlier removal as an experiment?

Author: What "PLS-SM outlier removal" argument are you referring to?
Do you wish to make any changes to these sentences or is this just reflection?

I agree though, I think it does justify that idea. No harm in trying to get rid of outlier removal to see what kind of an impact that has IMO.

Reviewer: Just reflection

While it would be ideal to include outlier detection in the ICA phase to ensure alignment with the original pipeline, implementing it based on substantial assumptions would be counterproductive, potentially compromising the integrity of our analysis.

After examining the results in section \ref{sec:results}, we will discuss the implications of these design choices in section \ref{sec:discussion}.

\subsubsection{Joint Approximate Diagonalization of Eigenmatrices (JADE) and Regression}
After preprocessing the data, we are ready to perform ICA.
This is done using the Joint Approximate Diagonalization of Eigenmatrices (JADE) algorithm, which is used to calculate the mixing matrix.

> This mixing matrix is an $N \times M$ matrix, where $N$ is the number of samples and $M$ is the number of independent components.

Reviewer: `an` is wrong, no? Read as `This mixing matrix is **an** 2 by 2 matrix`.

```suggestion
This mixing matrix is a $N \times M$ matrix, where $N$ is the number of samples and $M$ is the number of independent components.
```

By taking the product of the mixing matrix and the normalized data, we get the estimated sources.

> This new matrix is an $M \times P$ matrix, where $M$ is the number of independent components, and $P$ is the number of wavelengths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new matrix is a $M \times P$ matrix, where $M$ is the number of independent components, and $P$ is the number of wavelengths.
```

After performing ICA, we post-process by computing the correlation between the independent components and the wavelengths.
Using this, we can identify which wavelengths are associated with which independent components by computing the maximum correlation for each wavelength.
This gives us a matrix of ICA scores that we then use for regression.

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{images/ica_regression.png}
	\caption{Regression in the ICA phase of our recreation of the pipeline.}
	\label{fig:ica_regression}
\end{figure}

The regression process is illustrated in figure \ref{fig:ica_regression}.
Since we are implementing this recreation in Python, a different programming language than the original pipeline, we cannot use the same libraries for regression.

> We use the \texttt{LinearRegression} class from the \texttt{scikit-learn} library\cite{scikit-learn}.

Reviewer: Doesn't seem necessary to write. Do they even specify which libraries they use?
IMO remove.

Author: Agreed and removed.

% \label{tab:regression_types}
% \end{table}

% TODO: Update/rewrite this to reflect the new curve-fit implementation.
% Because \texttt{scikit-learn} does not support these types of regression, we instead opted to transform the data to fit the linear regression model.
% For example, to perform exponential regression, we take the natural logarithm of the data, perform linear regression, and then take the exponential of the result.
% This is done for each of the four types of regression mentioned above.
% The code for this can be seen in listing \ref{lst:data_transformation}.

% \begin{lstlisting}[
% 	language=Python,
% 	caption={The code for transforming the data to fit the linear regression model.},
% 	label={lst:data_transformation}
% 	]
% if model_name == "Log-square":
% 	X_train = np.log(X_train**2)
% 	X_test = np.log(X_test**2)
% elif model_name == "Exponential":
% 	X_train = np.log(X_train)
% 	X_test = np.log(X_test)
% elif model_name == "Geometric":
% 	X_train = np.sqrt(X_train)
% 	X_test = np.sqrt(X_test)
% elif model_name == "Parabolic":
% 	X_train = np.column_stack((X_train, X_train**2))
% 	X_test = np.column_stack((X_test, X_test**2))
% \end{lstlisting}

> In summary, we have created a replica of the ICA phase of the pipeline with strategic adaptations to accommodate the differences in programming language and the missing or unclear information about the original implementation.

Reviewer: Written by Copilot? 

The difference in programming language argument is weak. Please don't use it.
`Strategic adaptations` is mostly OK for not removing the IRF and somewhat OK for outlier removal. Could you rephrase?

Author: We removed it because a summary of a short subsection didn't feel right at all - and with the newly added text, it already ends in a pretty nice way, I think.

\subsection{MOC}\label{sec:methodology_moc}
As mentioned in section \ref{sec:moc}, the result of the PLS1-SM and ICA are combined to produce the final MOC model.

> This is done by taking a weighted average of the two models, where the weights are determined based on the fact that one technique is be better suited for certain elements than the other.

Reviewer: Better?
```suggestion
This is done by taking a weighted average of the two models, where the weights for each oxide are determined by which technique is better suited for the given oxide.
```

> This is done by taking a weighted average of the two models, where the weights are determined based on the fact that one technique is be better suited for certain elements than the other.

Reviewer: After my comment on this section, I realized that we've already written everything but the weights in 2.1.2. I'd prefer not repeating ourselves. Can we not write something else in this section that bridges the components together nicely?

Reviewer: And 2.1.2 is better formulated than here.

Author: Agreed. Rephrased to this:

> As described in section \ref{sec:moc_derivation}, the result of the PLS1-SM and ICA are combined to produce the final MOC model, which weights the results of the two techniques in favor of the one that performs best for each oxide.
> The specific weights used for each oxide can be seen in table \ref{tab:weighted_sum_oxide}.
> Note that the weights for Ti, Mg and Ca have been set to 50/50 since \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017} does not mention the weights they used for these elements.

\begin{table}[h]
\centering
\begin{tabular*}{\columnwidth}{@{\extracolsep{\fill}}lcc}
\toprule
Element  & PLS1-SM (\%) & ICA (\%) \\ \midrule
Al       & 75           & 25      \\
Fe       & 75           & 25      \\
Si       & 50           & 50      \\
Na       & 40           & 60      \\
K2       & 25           & 75      \\
Ti*      & 50           & 50      \\
Mg*      & 50           & 50      \\
Ca*      & 50           & 50      \\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular*}
\caption{Weighted Sum of Oxide Percentages. Elements marked with an asterisk (*) have been set to 50/50 as they are unspecified in \citet{cleggRecalibrationMarsScience2017}}
\label{tab:weighted_sum_oxide}
\end{table}

% \textit{Recreate the current model. Reproduce the results of the original papers. Investigate the limitations of the model and propose improvements.}

% \section{Framework for at kunne analysere data}
% Hold out split 80/20 - har lavet cross validation på træningssæt

% \section{Outlier removal}
% \section{Ikke lavet outlier removal i ICA}
% \section{Har ikke lavet inverse IRF}

> % \section{Ved ikke hvordan 3 oxider er vægtet i MOC}

Reviewer: Nice sections ;)
